OCKET PROGRAMMING: First, we must know the concept of both the server and the client. 
A server is a software that waits for client requests and serves or processes them accordingly. On the other hand, a client is requester of this service. 
A client program request for some resources to the server and server responds to that request.

Socket programming is a way of connecting two nodes on a network to communicate with each other. 
Sockets (or socket programming) is a program that enables two sockets to send and receive data, bi-directionally, at any given moment. 
One socket (node) listens on a particular port at an IP, while other socket reaches out to the other to form a connection. 
Server forms the listener socket while client reaches out to the server. 
The primary socket API functions and methods in this module are:  socket()  bind()  listen()  accept()  connect()  send()  close()

STAGES:
The steps involved in establishing a socket on the client side are as follows:
1. Create a socket with the socket() system call
2. Connect the socket to the address of the server using the connect() system call
3. Send and receive data. There are a number of ways to do this, but the simplest is to use the read() and write() system calls. The steps involved in establishing a socket on the server side are as follows:
1. Create a socket with the socket() system call
2. Bind the socket to an address using the bind() system call. For a server socket on the Internet, an address consists of a port number on the host machine.
3. Listen for connections with the listen() system call
4. Accept a connection with the accept() system call. This call typically blocks until a client connects with the server.
5. Send and receive data.

CODE: We have to make two files, one for the server and another for client. 

SERVER: server.py 

import socket 
s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,sockt.SOCK_STREAM) 
s.bind((socket.gethostname(),1024)) 
s.listen(5) 
while True: 
  clt,adr=s.accept()
  print(f”Connection to (adr) established”) 
  clt.send(bytes(“Hello World”, “utf-8”)) 
  clt.close()
  
CLIENT: client.py 

import socket s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,sockt.SOCK_STREAM) 
s.connect((socket.gethostname(),1024)) 
complete_message= ‘ ’ 
while True: 
  msg=s.recv(5) 
  if len(msg)<=0: 
  break 
  complete_message += msg.decode(“utf-8”) 
print(complete_message)


GSM/GPRS: 
GSM stands for Global System for Mobile Communication and GPRS stands for General Packet Radio Service. 
It is an international standard for mobile telephones. It is an acronym that stands for Global System for Mobile Communications. 
It is also sometimes referred to as 2G, as it is a second-generation cellular network. 
PRS or General Packet Radio Service is an extension of the GSM Network. 
GPRS is an integrated part of the GSM Network which provides an efficient way to transfer data with the same resources as GSM Network. 
To use GPRS for internet access, and for the Arduino to request or serve webpages, you need to obtain the Access Point Name (APN) and a username/password from the network operator. 
GPRS is a packet switching technology that stands for General Packet Radio Service. 
It can provide idealized data rates between 56-114 kilobit per second. 

BRAIN WAVE SENSOR: When a group of neurons experience this change in electrical impulse, they generate an electrical field which resembles a small vibration and which can be then detected on the scalp by an EEG sensors.
Basically, the brain receives an electrical signal, which causes an action potential within neurons. 
There are generally 5 types of Brain waves according to the frequency- Delta, Theta, Alpha, Beta and Gamma (from least to highest frequency).


MUSCLE SENSOR: The muscle sensors measures muscle activity through the electric potential of the muscle, commonly referred to as electromyography. 
When our brain tells your muscle to flex, it sends an electrical signal to our muscle to start recruiting motor units. 
The harder you flex, the more motor units are synchronized to generate greater muscle force. 
The greater the number of motor units synchronized, the more the electrical activity of our muscle increases. 
The muscle sensors analyse the electrical activity and give output an analog signal that shows how hard the muscle is being flexed.
  
  
